The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or
convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention
mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer,
based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions
entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to
be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly
less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 Englishto-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including
ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task,
our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after
training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the
best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to
other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with
large and limited training data.

Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory [13] and gated recurrent [7] neural networks
in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and
transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation [35, 2, 5]. Numerous
efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder
architectures [38, 24, 15].
Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output
sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden
states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht−1 and the input for position t. This inherently
sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer
sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples. Recent work has achieved
significant improvements in computational efficiency through factorization tricks [21] and conditional
computation [32], while also improving model performance in case of the latter. The fundamental
constraint of sequential computation, however, remains.
Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models in various tasks, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in
the input or output sequences [2, 19]. In all but a few cases [27], however, such attention mechanisms
are used in conjunction with a recurrent network.
In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead
relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.
The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in
translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.

The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU
[16], ByteNet [18] and ConvS2S [9], all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building
block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models,
the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows
in the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makes
it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions [12]. In the Transformer this is
reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due
to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi-Head Attention as
described in section 3.2.
Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention is an attention mechanism relating different positions
of a single sequence in order to compute a representation of the sequence. Self-attention has been
used successfully in a variety of tasks including reading comprehension, abstractive summarization,
textual entailment and learning task-independent sentence representations [4, 27, 28, 22].
End-to-end memory networks are based on a recurrent attention mechanism instead of sequencealigned recurrence and have been shown to perform well on simple-language question answering and
language modeling tasks [34].
To the best of our knowledge, however, the Transformer is the first transduction model relying
entirely on self-attention to compute representations of its input and output without using sequencealigned RNNs or convolution. In the following sections, we will describe the Transformer, motivate
self-attention and discuss its advantages over models such as [17, 18] and [9].

Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure [5, 2, 35].
Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations (x1, ..., xn) to a sequence
of continuous representations z = (z1, ..., zn). Given z, the decoder then generates an output
sequence (y1, ..., ym) of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive
[10], consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next.
2
Figure 1: The Transformer - model architecture.
The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully
connected layers for both the encoder and decoder, shown in the left and right halves of Figure 1,
respectively.

Encoder: The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two
sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, positionwise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection [11] around each of
the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization [1]. That is, the output of each sub-layer is
LayerNorm(x + Sublayer(x)), where Sublayer(x) is the function implemented by the sub-layer
itself. To facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layers in the model, as well as the embedding
layers, produce outputs of dimension dmodel = 512.
Decoder: The decoder is also composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. In addition to the two
sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head
attention over the output of the encoder stack. Similar to the encoder, we employ residual connections
around each of the sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. We also modify the self-attention
sub-layer in the decoder stack to prevent positions from attending to subsequent positions. This
masking, combined with fact that the output embeddings are offset by one position, ensures that the
predictions for position i can depend only on the known outputs at positions less than i.

An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output,
where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum
3
Scaled Dot-Product Attention Multi-Head Attention
Figure 2: (left) Scaled Dot-Product Attention. (right) Multi-Head Attention consists of several
attention layers running in parallel.
of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the
query with the corresponding key

We call our particular attention "Scaled Dot-Product Attention" (Figure 2). The input consists of
queries and keys of dimension dk, and values of dimension dv. We compute the dot products of the
query with all keys, divide each by √
dk, and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the
values.
In practice, we compute the attention function on a set of queries simultaneously, packed together
into a matrix Q. The keys and values are also packed together into matrices K and V . We compute
the matrix of outputs as:
Attention(Q, K, V ) = softmax(QKT
√
dk
)V (1)
The two most commonly used attention functions are additive attention [2], and dot-product (multiplicative) attention. Dot-product attention is identical to our algorithm, except for the scaling factor
of √
1
dk
. Additive attention computes the compatibility function using a feed-forward network with
a single hidden layer. While the two are similar in theoretical complexity, dot-product attention is
much faster and more space-efficient in practice, since it can be implemented using highly optimized
matrix multiplication code.
While for small values of dk the two mechanisms perform similarly, additive attention outperforms
dot product attention without scaling for larger values of dk [3]. We suspect that for large values of
dk, the dot products grow large in magnitude, pushing the softmax function into regions where it has
extremely small gradients 4
. To counteract this effect, we scale the dot products by √
1
dk
.

Instead of performing a single attention function with dmodel-dimensional keys, values and queries,
we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h times with different, learned
linear projections to dk, dk and dv dimensions, respectively. On each of these projected versions of
queries, keys and values we then perform the attention function in parallel, yielding dv-dimensional
4To illustrate why the dot products get large, assume that the components of q and k are independent random
variables with mean 0 and variance 1. Then their dot product, q · k =
Pdk
i=1 qiki, has mean 0 and variance dk.
4
output values. These are concatenated and once again projected, resulting in the final values, as
depicted in Figure 2.
Multi-head attention allows the model to jointly attend to information from different representation
subspaces at different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this.
MultiHead(Q, K, V ) = Concat(head1, ..., headh)WO
where headi = Attention(QWQ
i
, KW K
i
, V WV
i
)
Where the projections are parameter matrices W
Q
i ∈ R
dmodel×dk , W K
i ∈ R
dmodel×dk , WV
i ∈ R
dmodel×dv
and WO ∈ R
hdv×dmodel
.
In this work we employ h = 8 parallel attention layers, or heads. For each of these we use
dk = dv = dmodel/h = 64. Due to the reduced dimension of each head, the total computational cost
is similar to that of single-head attention with full dimensionality.

Since our model contains no recurrence and no convolution, in order for the model to make use of the
order of the sequence, we must inject some information about the relative or absolute position of the
tokens in the sequence. To this end, we add "positional encodings" to the input embeddings at the
bottoms of the encoder and decoder stacks. The positional encodings have the same dimension dmodel
as the embeddings, so that the two can be summed. There are many choices of positional encodings,
learned and fixed [9].
In this work, we use sine and cosine functions of different frequencies:
P E(pos,2i) = sin(pos/100002i/dmodel)
P E(pos,2i+1) = cos(pos/100002i/dmodel)
where pos is the position and i is the dimension. That is, each dimension of the positional encoding
corresponds to a sinusoid. The wavelengths form a geometric progression from 2π to 10000 · 2π. We
chose this function because we hypothesized it would allow the model to easily learn to attend by
relative positions, since for any fixed offset k, P Epos+k can be represented as a linear function of
P Epos.
We also experimented with using learned positional embeddings [9] instead, and found that the two
versions produced nearly identical results (see Table 3 row (E)). We chose the sinusoidal version
because it may allow the model to extrapolate to sequence lengths longer than the ones encountered
during training.

In this section we compare various aspects of self-attention layers to the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequence of symbol representations
(x1, ..., xn) to another sequence of equal length (z1, ..., zn), with xi
, zi ∈ R
d
, such as a hidden
layer in a typical sequence transduction encoder or decoder. Motivating our use of self-attention we
consider three desiderata.
One is the total computational complexity per layer. Another is the amount of computation that can
be parallelized, as measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required.
The third is the path length between long-range dependencies in the network. Learning long-range
dependencies is a key challenge in many sequence transduction tasks. One key factor affecting the
ability to learn such dependencies is the length of the paths forward and backward signals have to
traverse in the network. The shorter these paths between any combination of positions in the input
and output sequences, the easier it is to learn long-range dependencies [12]. Hence we also compare
the maximum path length between any two input and output positions in networks composed of the
different layer types.
As noted in Table 1, a self-attention layer connects all positions with a constant number of sequentially
executed operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires O(n) sequential operations. In terms of
computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence
6
length n is smaller than the representation dimensionality d, which is most often the case with
sentence representations used by state-of-the-art models in machine translations, such as word-piece
[38] and byte-pair [31] representations. To improve computational performance for tasks involving
very long sequences, self-attention could be restricted to considering only a neighborhood of size r in
the input sequence centered around the respective output position. This would increase the maximum
path length to O(n/r). We plan to investigate this approach further in future work.
A single convolutional layer with kernel width k < n does not connect all pairs of input and output
positions. Doing so requires a stack of O(n/k) convolutional layers in the case of contiguous kernels,
or O(logk(n)) in the case of dilated convolutions [18], increasing the length of the longest paths
between any two positions in the network. Convolutional layers are generally more expensive than
recurrent layers, by a factor of k. Separable convolutions [6], however, decrease the complexity
considerably, to O(k · n · d + n · d
2
). Even with k = n, however, the complexity of a separable
convolution is equal to the combination of a self-attention layer and a point-wise feed-forward layer,
the approach we take in our model.
As side benefit, self-attention could yield more interpretable models. We inspect attention distributions
from our models and present and discuss examples in the appendix. Not only do individual attention
heads clearly learn to perform different tasks, many appear to exhibit behavior related to the syntactic
and semantic structure of the sentences.